---
layout: publication
categories: publications

title: OpenROAD-Assistant - An Open-Source Large Language Model for Physical Design Tasks
subtitle: 
author: Utsav Sharma*, Bing-Yue Wu*, Sai Rahul Dhanvi Kankipati, Vidya A. Chhabria, and Austin Rovinski
venue: Proceedings of The 2024 ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Machine Learning for CAD

link-text: PDF
link-download: /images/publications/MLCAD2024_OpenROAD_Assistant.pdf

featured-image: /images/satellite-header-1.png
tags: [Generative AI, LLM, Reinforcement Learning from human feedback]
date: 2024-09-09
---

Large language models (LLMs) have shown significant potential in serving as domain-specific chatbots. Recently, these models have emerged as powerful tools for chip design, providing both natural language responses and script generation for domain-specific inquiries. Previous work has demonstrated the effectiveness of LLMs in assisting with physical design automation; however, these approaches often rely on proprietary tools, APIs, technologies, and designs. As a result, access to these models is extremely limited, particularly for new chip designers who could greatly benefit from a design assistant. This paper introduces OpenROAD-Assistant, an open-source chatbot for OpenROAD that relies only on public data and responds to queries in either prose or Python script using the OpenROAD APIs. OpenROAD-Assistant leverages the Llama3-8B foundation model and employs retrieval-aware fine-tuning (RAFT) to respond to physical design-specific questions for OpenROAD. Notably, OpenROAD-Assistant outperforms other foundational models such as ChatGPT3.5, ChatGPT4, Code Llama, Claude3, and other ablation study baselines on the measured metrics (pass@k for scripting and BERTScore/BARTScore for question-answering). OpenROAD-Assistant achieves a 77% pass@1 score, 80% pass@3 score for scripting, and it achieves a 98% BERTScore and 96% BARTScore on question-answering.

## Try OpenROAD Assistant

* [Open Source GitHub Repo](https://github.com/OpenROAD-Assistant/OpenROAD-Assistant)

<br>
<div class="language-plaintext highlighter-rouge">
  Cite this Paper (BibTeX)
  <div class="highlight">
  <pre  style="overflow-x:hidden">
@inproceedings{sharma2024openroad,
  title={Openroad-assistant: An open-source large language model for physical design tasks},
  author={Sharma, Utsav and Wu, Bing-Yue and Kankipati, Sai Rahul Dhanvi and Chhabria, Vidya A and Rovinski, Austin},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 2024 ACM/IEEE International Symposium on Machine Learning for CAD},
  pages={1--7},
  year={2024}
}</pre></div></div>